= stanfordparser

This is an upload/extension of Bill McNeal's stanfordparser rubyforge gem, check it out at its homepage (seems to be partially in French)

http://rubyforge.org/projects/stanfordparser/

or its rdocs

http://stanfordparser.rubyforge.org/

I've been having issues trying to use this gem so I decided to upload it to github and try to organize it to be a little more gem-friendly, especially using jeweler.

AFAIK there aren't other copies of this on github, please correct me if I'm mistaken. The only similar one I can see is http://github.com/tiendung/ruby-nlp which has much less code and I can only assume to be something else.

See README.orig for Bill's readme, which includes dependencies, installation, and usage.

== Branches

master - Jeweler and Bundler integrated along with slight reorganization of files to be more gem-standard. This is the branch you should use if you want to source the gem straight from github. I will leave this branch alone for the most part unless I find/come up with stable and useful additions. All changes will be backwards compatible.
stock - Almost untouched from Bill's version, except for the README. Use this branch if that's what you're looking for.
experimental - I'll be putting in some code as examples and testing out some ideas. Do not use this branch as a gem. You are very encouraged, however, to fork it and add some code/make my code better. I'll try to integrate all the pull requests I get, if not in that branch into another. 

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. I would prefer rSpec, but TestUnit is acceptable as well since there are some of those from the original author.
* Commit.
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 John Wilkinson. See LICENSE for details.
Copyright 2007-2008, William Patrick McNeill. See README.orig for details.
